Suboptimal user context handling (#448)
SE-UUlm/snowballr-frontend: wiki/Contributing.md

    └── unit/
```

## User Context

The application provides a global user context that makes the currently authenticated user's data available throughout
the component tree.

### How the User is Fetched and Made Available

The initial user loading logic lives in the root layout.ts file. It checks whether a user is already cached using the
userCache. If no cached user is found, it attempts to determine the current authentication status and fetch the user
accordingly. If the user is unauthenticated or the session is invalid, it tries to renew the session or redirects to
the sign-in page if necessary.

The resulting user object—whether fetched, cached, or an explicit "empty" user—is returned from layout.ts and injected
into the user context by the root layout.svelte file. This ensures the user state is consistent and accessible

> throughout the app.

Reviewer: I think this logic would be easier to understand if you read it in a diagram, e. g. state diagram or activity diagram.

Author: You're right. I will add one.

   import { toast } from "svelte-sonner";
   import { StatusCodes } from "$lib/model/error-codes";
   
    const user = $derived(getContext<() => User>(UserContextKey)());
   
    async function handleNameUpdate(newName: string) {
    try {
    const response = await backendService.updateUser({
    user: { id: user.id, firstName: newName /_ other fields _/ },
    mask: { paths: ["first_name"] } // Example field mask
    }).response;
   
              // Assuming your backendService call doesn't throw on non-OK gRPC status
              // and returns a structure with a status code. Adjust as per your actual API.
              // Or, if it throws, catch the error.
   
              triggerCurrentUserRefresh();
              toast.success("User details updated successfully!");
          } catch (error) {
              console.error("Failed to update user:", error);
              toast.error("Failed to update user details.");
          }
   
    }
   </script>
   ```

   Calling `triggerCurrentUserRefresh()` invalidates the `USER_DEPENDENCY_KEY`, by calling
   `invalidate(USER_DEPENDENCY_KEY)`. This prompts SvelteKit to re-run the root `load` function which re-fetches the

>    updated user from the backend.

Reviewer: I think this is not necessary as it is a detail interested people can look up on their own.

Author: You're right. This is not really needed.

    └── unit/
```

## User Context

The application provides a global user context that makes the currently authenticated user's data available throughout
the component tree.

### How the User is Fetched and Made Available

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Root layout.ts]
    B{User cached?}
    C[Use cached user]
    D[Check auth/session]
    E{Session valid?}
    F[Use fetched user]
    G[Redirect to sign-in]
    H[Inject user into context]
    I[Components use context]

    A --> B
    B -->|Yes| C --> H
    B -->|No| D --> E
    E -->|Yes| F --> H
    E -->|No| G
    H --> I
```

> 
> The initial user loading logic lives in the root layout.ts file. It checks whether a user is already cached using the
> userCache. If no cached user is found, it attempts to determine the current authentication status and fetch the user
> accordingly. If the user is unauthenticated or the session is invalid, it tries to renew the session or redirects to
> the sign-in page if necessary.
> 
> The resulting user object—whether fetched, cached, or an explicit "empty" user—is returned from layout.ts and injected
> into the user context by the root layout.svelte file. This ensures the user state is consistent and accessible
> throughout the app.
> 
> Components can safely assume that the user object is always valid and never null or undefined. In cases where the user
> is not authenticated, the app will redirect to the sign-in page before components are rendered. This eliminates the
> need for null checks in downstream components that rely on user data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial user loading logic lives in the root `layout.ts` file and is described by flow chart above.

If the session is expired, the sessions is tried to be renewed. It this fails, the user is unauthenticated or any other error occurred, the user is redirected to the sign-in page.

Components throughout the entire application can safely access the user context and assume that the user object is always valid and never `null` or `undefined`. In cases where the user
is not authenticated, the app will redirect to the sign-in page before components are rendered. This eliminates the need for null checks in downstream components that rely on user data.
```

Author: I added the `null`, and `undefined` suggestions. The formatting I had to dismiss, since the line length is capped and 120 chars.
